# Solar-Panel-system-Simulation
Passive Logic Interview Challenge
# Abstract
This is a simple simulation of a solar panel system that comprises a solar panel setup, allowing the user to select any number of solar panels with varying sizes ( surface areas ), the system assumes the following alignment of pipes, pump, and storage tank. The following assumptions were made to simplify code implementation and usage,
* Pipes are horizontal, bends and turns are ignored
* External temperature is set to 302 K
* The API services used only supports US cities
* The simulations assume strong sunlight hours of the day
# The Code
**Python** was used to build the project. I used the **Open Weather** API service to fetch the longitude and latitude of the cities   I have used appropriate, well-encapsulated methods to construct various components and their respective behaviors like the nature and properties of a fluid, how the pipe contributes to loss of heat to the surroundings, how much energy is required by the pump to keep the fluid flowing, etc. I have used **PyTest** and **Mockit** to test the basic functionality of the aforementioned methods. 
To graphically represent the energy generated by the solar panels, which was always a curious thing to me, I have used **MatplotLib** to show how much energy the solar panel is generated vs the date based on the GHI values returned by the **solcast API**. 
The final part of my work is the simulation itself, the system prompts the user to pick a simulation time in hours and the system then runs a simulation for the given number of hours, depicting the energy status, temperature, and heat loss from various components. 
# Instructions
Please run the main.py file in a Python 3 environment. I have coded a couple of instructions for the users wherever the code prompts a user input.
# Limitations and Future Work
I was unable to use an API service that would forecast GHI, cloud cover, and temperature for the upcoming hours, as it was a paid service. I believe it could have made an amazing source to accurately simulate how the system would act in a real place in real time. I had an Idea to implement a component stack that would look something like this [Solar Panel,  _______,  ________, _________, Storage Tank] where we can allow the user to pick any component in any order, of course with some kind of validation like, a pump can be placed only between pipes, etc. With the right work put into this project, we can build something of real value, that can be used to advertise solar panel systems, find the best markets for them, and forecast energy output by the system to the end users.
# References 
API Services by https://docs.solcast.com.au/ and https://openweathermap.org/ .


